---
layout:     post
title:      "Call for paper"
subtitle:   "NIPS Workshop on Optimal Transport & Machine Learning"
date:       2014-10-21 12:00:00
author:     "Gabriel Peyré"
header-img: "../img/hokusai-0.jpg"
---

OTML 2014 - Optimal Transport & Machine Learning
==========


Dates: December 12 or 13, 2014

Place: Montréal, Quebec Canada

[Webpage](http://www.iip.ist.i.kyoto-u.ac.jp/OTML2014/)

Description
--------

Optimal transport (OT) has emerged as a novel tool to solve problems in machine learning and related fields, e.g. graphics, statistics, data analysis, computer vision, economics and imaging. 

The toolbox of OT (including for instance the Wasserstein/Earth Mover's Distances) offers robust mathematical techniques to study probability measures and compare complex objects described using bags-of-features representations. 

Scaling OT algorithms to datasets of large dimension and sample size presents, however, a considerable computational challenge. Taking for granted that these challenges are partially solved, there remains many salient open research questions on how to integrate OT in statistical methodologies (dimensionality reduction, inference, modeling) beyond its classical use in retrieval. 

OTML 2014 will be the first international workshop to address state-of-the-art research in this exciting area. 


Topics Covered by the Workshop 
--------

We solicit submission of original research at the interface between optimal transport and machine learning, including (but not limited to):

* numerical schemes to solve the OT problem (e.g. fast EMD solvers);
* generalizations of the OT problem (e.g. multi-marginal OT);
* theoretical results on approximations of OT distances through embeddings;
* numerical resolution and theoretical study of constrained and/or regularized OT problems;
* applications of OT in supervised learning settings (e.g. distance or kernel based classifiers, metric learning with the OT geometry);
* applications of OT in unsupervised learning to summarize datasets (e.g. generalization of k-means type clustering) and/or histograms (e.g. Wasserstein barycenters, Wasserstein propagation, retrieval);
* applications of OT to modeling interactions in social networks (e.g. matching models);
* applications of OT to computer vision and related fields; and
* combinatorial perspectives on OT and related algebraic statistical concepts (e.g. contingency tables).

Invited Talks 
--------

* Alexander Barvinok, University of Michigan, Non-negative matrices with prescribed row and column sums

* Piotr Indyk, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Geometric representations of the Earth-Mover Distance

* Robert McCann, University of Toronto, Optimal transport: old and new


Important Dates 
--------

Submission deadline: October 23rd

Acceptance decision: October 31st
Workshop: December 13th (Saturday)

Format 
--------

Submissions must adhere to NIPS 2014 style format available on the NIPS submission page. Papers may be between 6 and 10 pages long, including figures and references. Supplementary material can be provided. Submissions should not be anonymized.

Submission 
--------

Submissions should be uploaded on the [OTML14 Easychair system](https://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=otml2014) before October 23, 23:59PM (PDT, Pacific Time).

Presentation Format 
--------

All papers will undergo review. All accepted papers will have a poster presentation at the workshop, and selected papers will also be presented orally.

Organizers 
--------

* Marco Cuturi, Kyoto University
* Gabriel Peyré, CNRS & CEREMADE, Paris Dauphine
* Justin Solomon, Stanford University